.TH CUNEIFORM 1 "@CF_DATE@" "@CF_VERSION@" "multi\-language OCR system"

.SH NAME
cuneiform \- multi\-language OCR system

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcuneiform\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Cuneiform is an OCR system. In addition to text recognition it also 
does layout analysis and text format recognition. 
Cuneiform supports several languages.

.SH OPTIONS
.B 
.IP  "\-a, \-\-append" 4
Appends output to existing document. Note: not all format supported.

.B
.IP "\-\-bom" 4
Writes BOM (byte order mark) in the beginning of document.

.B
.IP "\-\-debug\-dump" 4
Dumps various temporary recognition data files to current directory.

.B
.IP "\-\-dotmatrix" 4
Use recognition mode optimized for text printed with a dot matrix printer.

.B
.IP "\-\-fax" 4
Use recognition mode optimized for text that has been faxed.

.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-format\fR=\fIFORMAT\fR" 4
Select output format. The following formats are available:

.TS
ll.
T{
.B djvutxt
T}	T{
(DJVU text format)
T}
T{
.B djvuxml
T}	T{
(DJVU XML format)
T}
T{
.B fb2
T}	T{
(FB2 format)
T}
T{
.B html
T}	T{
(HTML format)
T}
T{
.B hocr
T}	T{
(hOCR HTML format)
T}
T{
.B native
T}	T{
(native cuneiform text format)
T}
T{
.B native\-xml
T}	T{
(native cuneiform XML format)
T}
T{
.B odf
T}	T{
(OpenDocument format)
T}
T{
.B smarttext
T}	T{
(plain text with TeX paragraphs)
T}
T{
.B summary
T}	T{
(prints recognition summary)
T}
T{
.B text
T}	T{
(plain text)
T}
T{
.B textdebug
T}	T{
(row recognition output without formatting, for debugging purposes)
T}
.TE
  
The default is plain text.

.B
.IP "\-\-help" 4
Prints help message.

.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-language\fR=\fILANGUAGE\fR" 4
By default Cuneiform recognizes English text. 
To change the language use the command line switch \fB\-l\fR followed by a language 
code (ISO 639-2 two or three-letter code). The following languages are supported:


.TS
lll.
T{
.B bel
T}	T{
.B by
T}	T{
Belarusian
T}
T{
.B bul
T}	T{
.B bg
T}	T{
Bulgarian
T}
T{
.B cze
T}	T{
.B cz
T}	T{
Czech
T}
T{
.B dan
T}	T{
.B da
T}	T{
Danish
T}
T{
.B dut
T}	T{
.B nl
T}	T{
Dutch
T}
T{
.B eng
T}	T{
.B en
T}	T{
English
T}
T{
.B est
T}	T{
.B et
T}	T{
Estonian
T}
T{
.B fra
T}	T{
.B fr
T}	T{
French
T}
T{
.B ger
T}	T{
.B de
T}	T{
German
T}
T{
.B hrv
T}	T{
.B hr
T}	T{
Croatian
T}
T{
.B hun
T}	T{
.B hu
T}	T{
Hungarian
T}
T{
.B ita
T}	T{
.B it
T}	T{
Italian
T}
T{
.B lav
T}	T{
.B lv
T}	T{
Latvian
T}
T{
.B lit
T}	T{
.B lt
T}	T{
Lithuanian
T}
T{
.B pol
T}	T{
.B pl
T}	T{
Polish
T}
T{
.B por
T}	T{
.B pt
T}	T{
Portuguese
T}
T{
.B rum
T}	T{
.B ro
T}	T{
Romanian
T}
T{
.B rus
T}	T{
.B ru
T}	T{
Russian
T}
T{
.B ruseng
T}	T{
.B ruen
T}	T{
mixed Russian/English
T}
T{
.B slo
T}	T{
.B sk
T}	T{
Slovak
T}
T{
.B spa
T}	T{
.B es
T}	T{
Spanish
T}
T{
.B srp
T}	T{
.B sr
T}	T{
Serbian (cyrillic)
T}
T{
.B swe
T}	T{
.B sw
T}	T{
Swedish
T}
T{
.B tur
T}	T{
.B tr
T}	T{
Turkish
T}
T{
.B ukr
T}	T{
.B uk
T}	T{
Ukrainian
T}
.TE
.

.IP "\fB\-\-monospace\fR=\fIFONT_NAME\fR" 4
Use specified font for monospace in output. Note: not all output formats supported.

.B
.IP \-\-no\-bold 4
Use normal font for bold text in output document.

.B
.IP \-\-no\-bom 4
Do not write BOM (byte order mark). 

.B
.IP \-\-no\-font\-size 4 
Do not use font size in output document.
             
.B
.IP \-\-no\-italic 4
Use normal font for italic text in output document.

.B
.IP \-\-no\-meta\-generator 4
Do not write meta generator info in output document.

.B
.IP \-\-nopictures 4
Do not search pictures on input image.

.B
.IP \-\-onecolumn 4
Disable page layout analysis and assumes that 
the image consists of only one column of text.

.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR" 4
If you do not define an output file with the \fB\-o\fR switch, 
Cuneiform writes the result to a file \[oq]cuneiform\-out.\fIformat\fR\[cq]. 
The file extension depends on your output format. See \fB\-\-stdout\fR option
to print recognition result to standard output.

.IP "\fB\-\-output\-image\-dir\fR=\fIPATH\fR" 4
Sets image output directory name. 
If document contains pictures for some formats
like HTML, image directory created. 
Default image directory name is \[oq]\fIINPUT_FILE_WITHOUT_EXTENSION\fR_files\[cq].

.B
.IP "\fB\-\-page\-template\fR=LEFT,TOP,WIDTH,HEIGHT" 4
Set page recognition area.

.B
.IP \-\-pictures 4
Search pictures on input image (default). 

.B
.IP \-\-preserve\-line\-breaks 4
Preserve original line\-breaking in output document.

.B
.IP "\-p, \-\-progress" 4
Print recognition progress.

.IP "\fB\-\-sans\-serif\fR=\fIFONT_NAME\fR" 4
Use specified font for sans\-serif fonts in output document.

.IP "\fB\-\-serif\fR=\fIFONT_NAME\fR" 4
Use specified font for serif fonts in output document.      
 
.B
.IP \-\-show\-alternatives
Show alternatives of recognition (now HTML only).

.B
.IP "\-\-spell" 4
Use spell correction. 

.B
.IP \-\-stdout 4
Put recognition result to standard output.

.B
.IP \-\-supported\-image\-formats 4
Print supported image formats and exit.

.B
.IP "\fB\-\-turn\fR=\fIANGLE\fR" 4
Set page turning angle. Valid values area: -270, -180, -90, 0, 90, 180, 270.

.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-unrecognized\fR=\fICHAR\fR"
Set symbol, that shown instead of unrecognized characters.                
Default is \[oq]~\[cq].

.B
.IP "\-v, \-\-verbose" 4
Print verbose debugging messages.
            
.B
.IP "\-V, \-\-version" 4
Print program version and exit. 

.SH INPUT FORMAT
Supported image formats depend from which library used for image loading.
If none library was used \- it can process only uncompressed BMP images.
If \fBImageMagick\fR, \fBGraphicsMagick\fR or \fBQt4\fR was used \- cuneiform can process any 
single\-page image that this libraries knows how to open.
Please consult the \fBImageMagick\fR(1), \fBgm\fR(1) manual page 
for the comprehensive list of supported image formats.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I
.IP CF_DATADIR 4
environment can be set to point for cuneiform data files directory. 
By default cuneiform search it in \fI@INSTALL_DATADIR@/datafiles\fR.

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about cuneiform can be found at <\fIhttp://github.com/uliss/quneiform/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
cuneiform was written by \fBCognitive Technologies\fR and \fBJussi Pakkanen\fR <\fIjpakkane@gmail.com\fR>.
Some modifications were made by \fBSerge Poltavski\fR <\fIserge.poltavski@gmail.com\fR>.

.PP
This manual page was written by \fBDaniel Baumann\fR <\fIdaniel@debian.org\fR> 
and \fBSerge Poltavski\fR <\fIserge.poltavski@gmail.com\fR>.
